hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery back once
again with part three our little
overview the history of Chinese
philosophy before we get started let me
say there was a lot of heated discussion
about a certain matter inside this
humble organization but in the end my
little click inside the teacup media
empire prevailed therefore you might
notice that old CHP 97 episode covering
the II Ching produced back in September
well it ain't there anymore adding yet
another gap in the extensive back
catalogue numbering system here at the
CHP not that there's that much new in
the history of the e Ching that demands
a makeover of the episode but I thought
since I was putting this whole
miniseries together and because the e
Jing is so central to Chinese thought I
decided to freshen up the episode and
include it as part of this series on the
history of Chinese philosophy today
we're focusing on the e Ching the Book
of Changes the classic of changes the
changes by itself you'll also see it
referred to as the Joey the changes of
Joe of
all the ancient Chinese classics this
one is the most widely read R and
continues to be read on a daily basis by
millions the book of ODEs the book of
documents Xu jingzhong Xu all those
others people keep it in their library
but those volumes don't get taken off
the shelf as much as the each inge
besides being one of the most published
and widely read books on the planet it's
also one of the oldest ever written
that's still in existence alongside the
Old Testament the e Jing is the oldest
book and continuous use since ancient
times
unlike the Old Testament the each in
contains no God's capital R small G
plural or singular depending on which
expert you listen to the e Jing is
almost 4,000 years old but everywhere I
read it's more often pegged at 3,000
years old well it wasn't all written at
once or by the same person so how old is
the e Ching like most of what we know
about
in China from the oldest of olden days
can't say for sure of the Wu Ching the
five classics this is the only work that
can be slotted in the metaphysical
category all the other Confucian
classics are concerned only with human
affairs and the place human beings
occupy in the cosmos with the e Jing
this oldest of the classics one can
argue this is where the beginnings of
philosophy can be marked on China's
history timeline skeptics might scoff at
the e Ching just as secular people might
do it religion it's easy to take one's
rational eyes and lack of faith and cast
doubt on a book that's filled with words
that have no fixed meaning and yet can
unlock so many of the mysteries of life
and of the universe however you may look
at it the truth remains it's still
consulted on a daily basis as a guide
that teaches you how to live its use in
Chinese society from the Jo era all the
way into today has been continuous like
I said by people who came from every
class in China I'm thinking unless
people use it today then way back when
but it's still very much in use in all
kinds of manifestations anyone who was
seen a Fung Shui master do his thing
check in a place out for a client who
wants to build something perhaps the
master always has their Fung Shui
compasses one of the main tools you look
closely and you'll see this tool is tied
into the Book of Changes in an obvious
way yet Fung Shui isn't something
specifically discussed in the II Ching
rice university professor emeritus
Richard J Smith in his book the e Jing a
biography gave some very spot-on remarks
about the e Jing that I will quote here
and there he explained it this way quote
the central preoccupation of the eaching
throughout the Imperial era was how to
understand the patterns and processes of
nature and how to act in harmony with
them end quote
professor Smith defined nature
as doll and that to understand the doll
was to understand all the changes around
you and in the entire universe like the
Bible and the Quran the e Jing and it's
mere 4,100 characters and sixty four
chapters dispenses sound moral advice
that someone commoner all the way up to
ruler might find relevant to their
specific problem or situation no matter
how petty or far-reaching The Book of
Changes is most widely used and viewed
as a divination system that's how the
book began its life but it's way more
than that in its finished in standard
form the e Ching has stood as a
comprehensive philosophical treatise on
how our lives and everything around us
undergoes change they're no rituals or
prayers and the e Jing you don't read it
like a book from start to finish it's
more work you consult rather than read
the eaching differs from other forms of
divination that try to open the door to
the future to divine comes from the
Latin divin RA to foresee or be inspired
by God this was the art of tapping into
the divine will or the doll the e Jing
can act as your on-demand vest pocket
guide to advise you on a recommended
course of action for whatever question
you have and it's concerned only with
the present it won't predict the future
it's not like a deck of tarot cards it
will take certain variables into
consideration and advise you a course of
action to take or not to take to arrive
at your hope for future situation it
doesn't tell you what will happen it
just gives you ways to look at the
situation and assist you in making a
decision about what's best for you
Richard Wilhelm
who we will discuss more of later said
this to explain the e Jing quote it can
best be compared to an electrical
circuit reaching into all situations the
circuit only affords the potentiality of
lighting it does not give light
but when contact with a definite
situation is established through the
questioner the current is activated and
the given situation is illumined and
quote let's trace the milestones in the
development of the e Ching from its
earliest beginnings up to the time in
136 BCE when Emperor hon wu d allowed
the cement to dry and a final version of
the each ink i'm telling you what we
ended up with and what the eg set in its
earliest form no one could say for sure
it's so old there are a few traditional
stories about how the each in came about
all have pretty much been dismissed by
scholars as not true but these stories
will have to remain standing in as place
markers until archaeologists uncover new
evidence regarding what actually
happened what is it and where did it
come from well as tradition tells the
story it all began with Fuu she y'all
might remember foo she from CH p episode
60 on the three sovereigns and five
emperors the san huang wu d the mythical
rulers of China during the period of
prehistory he was the first one Yao and
schwann discussed in last episode were
part of that group to who she lived if
he lived at all that is for a more or
less
29:53 to 28:38 BCE this is old more than
2,000 years before Confucius and still a
few centuries before the Egyptian
pharaohs would start building the Giza
pyramids this linkage with Fuu she lends
even more mystery surrounding this
Bronze Age book of divination so more or
less 2800 BCE who's she in addition to
teaching his people about marriage music
writing painting fishing nets
domestication of livestock and thanks to
his sister or wife nu WA the secrets of
the silkworm also and through his own
patient observations and from receiving
messages from the divine he was taught
the wisdom of the eight trigrams the
bagua
one of the sources used by Foose she was
the Yellow River map the hood tool and
when you mentioned the Yellow River map
you always have to mention the law shoe
the law shoe square both the Yellow
River map and the law shoe square are
mentioned in the eaching since they were
numerological diagrams tradition says
Fuu she was inspired by them in creating
the eight trigrams now I have it on good
authority that you the great employed
the Yellow River map in his efforts to
deal with the two generations of raining
and flooding that afflicted China and
the world the Yellow River map
and the law shoe square are always
mentioned in conjunction with each other
when you see the diagrams they look
rather simplistic and uh next roar
Denari but there's more to it than meets
the eye and they were connected
numerologically to the eight trigrams we
just have to take that on faith
who she's divine source wasn't an
anthropomorphic divine source it will be
referred to usually as the doll like
moses who gave his people the ten
commandments so who she gave the Chinese
washa people the eight trigrams
archaeological evidence is indicated
that it seems the ancient Shang
civilization based around Anyang and
Hunan had already developed an ancient
numerology system that worked in consort
with their Oracle bone divination system
and it's believed that this system might
have also been an early inspiration for
the Bhagwad the eight trigrams that's
the defining symbol of the eaching the
eight trigrams Bhagwat and 64 hexagrams
lyosha sook wat that's how it all began
what's a trigram what's a hexagram let's
start at the beginning the prefixes try
and hex tell you the numbers three and
six are involved three and six of what
well you're all familiar with Ian and
yang
the two opposing forces that drive the
whole universe we're gonna discuss more
this later I assure you some
numerologists love to compare this to a
binary code in order to derive all kinds
of borrow conclusions who she gave us
the eight trigrams
shadynasty founder you the great some
say it was he who took those eight
trigrams and turned them into the 64
hexagrams there's more popular version
that purports the hexagrams were devised
and sequentially ordered by joe dynasty
founder kinguin back when he was still
called ji Chang head of the ji clan
during the struggle to bring an end to
the shang dynasty Chi Cheung was
captured and imprisoned by the last
Shang King Joe Xin mentioned in part one
and as the story goes during Chi Chang's
period of incarceration he devised these
so-called 64 judgments org watts for
each of the 64 hexagrams the next great
leap forward for the development of the
eaching following these 64 judgments of
king when came the introduction of the
individual line statements or youts
these line statements ranging from two
to 32 characters in length are
attributed to king Huan's son the Duke
of Joe the way the hexagrams were all
ordered was also attributed to King when
this is the so-called King one sequence
later on in the song there will be
another ordering of the hexagrams
different from King one in this will be
called the Fugees sequence this is the
core text the 64 hexagrams the judgments
and the line statements and we call this
not the each in but the Joey the changes
of Joe the main usage of the Joey at
this most ancient stage was as a
divination manual and the prevailing
attitude was that all of reality as they
knew it at that time could be reduced to
the two opposing forces of yin and yang
and all that dal contained in the
universe was represented in those 64
hexagrams
and
384 lines that made up the hexagrams
let's talk about these symbols trigrams
first there are always three lines at a
trigram three lines these lines that are
either broken or unbroken that is to say
either it's an unbroken straight line or
it's a line with a break in the middle
if you can't picture that think of the
South Korean flag you might be familiar
with that it's got the blue and red
yin-yang symbol in the center with four
trigrams on the top and bottom left and
right these are the four trigrams for
heaven earth fire and water the solid
line and a trigram stands for young and
the broken line stands for yin yin and
yang as I said there are two ways to
write the lines broken or unbroken and
there are three lines right
so that's 2 to the 3rd power 2 times 2
times 2 equal 8 no matter how you slice
it and dice it there are only 8 possible
combinations to write these trigrams
these are the sacred 8 each trigram has
a name a meaning and attribute a symbol
as well as a family relationship
associated with it
for example the trigram that has three
unbroken lines one on top of the other
it's name is chin its nature is 10 or
heaven it's season is summer in each
trigram or Gua his personality and this
one is creative the family relationship
associated with this Gua his father it
stands for the southerly direction and
has a meaning of expansive energy and
the sky let's take another one the Li
trigram this one is a solid line on the
top and bottom with a broken line in the
middle this has the nature of fire the
season of spring personality is clinging
family relationship is the middle
daughter the direction is east and
contains the meaning of rapid movement
radiance and the Sun a hexagram is
created by joining together to trigrams
I
the gram therefore is made up of a lower
try again in an upper trigram again if
you do the math of these eight trigrams
there are 8 times 8 or 64 possible ways
to join to try grams of broken and
unbroken lines together into a unique
hexagram people who understand the math
which disqualifies me at once can look
at it this way the first two hexagrams
are named Chien and kun they're the two
most famous why because the first one
shin is six rows of solid lines pure
Yong the second hexagram couldn't is six
rows of broken lines pure yin the other
sixty-two hexagrams are simply
permutations of these two Shen and kun
combined male/female unbroken line
broken line so 64 hexagrams these
combinations are broken and unbroken
lines of these hexagrams there are eight
that end up being written the same no
matter you invert them or not invert I
mean turn it upside down
for example chi n the first hexagram six
unbroken lines you turn it upside down
it's still the same six unbroken lines
there are eight hexagrams like this no
matter how you flip them they're the
same but the other 56 hexagrams those
can be inverted take for example the
twelfth hexagram p three solid lines on
top of three broken lines at the bottom
total six now take this P trigram and
flip it over now the three broken lines
at the bottom are on top and the three
unbroken lines that were on top are now
in the bottom this becomes the eleventh
trigram type so you got 28 one way plus
28 inverted like I just explained plus
the eight that never changed no matter
what 28 plus 28 plus eight equals 64 the
key to understanding the eaching is
locked up inside these 64 hexagrams each
hexagrams symbol
a life situation and contains as I said
a judgment a qu'atsu for each one this
squats defines the meaning of the
hexagram which i want to stress is open
to interpretation
you might ask five masters and get five
different answers
you'll also notice each hexagram has
mostly one but sometimes a two character
name that lets on is to its fundamental
symbolism
let me quote professor Richard J Smith
again quote the six lines of each
hexagram represent a situation in time
and space a field of action with
multiple actors and factors all of which
are in constant dynamic play the lines
read from bottom to top represent the
evolution of this situation and/or the
major players involved end quote and
these lines found in the trigrams and
hexagrams what they symbolize are the
forces of action and change that goes on
all around us constantly and not just
all around you I mean in the whole
universe
the whole grand scheme of things if you
will you remember way back in that dusty
dry old episode see HP 88 and the oracle
bones prior to the each in the
geomancer's who served at the king's
court would use oracle bones ox scapula
or turtle plastron z' as a medium to tap
into the divine and obtain guidance
about what to do next it was a very
crude system when in the early joe the e
gene came along as this new divination
method compared to
oracle bone prognostication it was like
streaming mp3s compared to 78 rpm
records had it not been for the next
major development probably we wouldn't
be having this conversation and I didn't
want to get into this in the last
episode I wanted to save it for this one
this next milestone link in the chain
happened around the 3rd century BCE
after Confucius after monks with the
introduction of the so called
ten wings
or sure eat these were ethical
commentaries to the hexagrams master
Kong is given credit for these ten wings
by no less an authority than somach yen
but these ten wings didn't really appear
anywhere till a couple centuries after
Confucius's death i'd like to eat ching
not all at the same time either or the
same person and as i indicated probably
not from comesit either i mentioned at
the close of part two that by the time
of the Western Han Confucius was
practically a god
so in ascribing these ten wings to a
person of this magnitude of sagacity it
really smothered the II Ching in all the
gravitas it could possibly dream of is
we in our day look back on the 1516
hundreds as such a backward time in the
US anyways so did these Western Han
Chinese look back on the days when
Confucius walked the earth cheese man
that was 400 years ago a lot of changes
the Han Dynasty educated elites saw
themselves as way more sophisticated
than their Cho dynasty ancestors then as
soon as the aging was fortified with
Confucian ideology it breathed new life
into this old tired classic and once
this had been done Confucian thought
fused together with the e Ching the
possibilities were endless it became
central to everything philosophically
that was happening so fast in China I
mentioned last episode among the
activities Confucius buried himself in
his last years was the study of the Book
of Changes as tradition tells it
Confucius was a seventy year old man
before he felt he was old enough and
mature enough and wise enough to take on
the study of the eaching and he lamented
in his old age in the Liu knew the
Analects of Confucius the Great Sage
said quote if a hundred years were added
to my life I would give 50 to the study
of the e Ching and might then escape
falling into great errors
and quote the great sage believed this
work contain the moral wisdom of the
Ancients he's so revered in adding these
10 wings or commentaries to the each in
Confucius also injected a bit of yin and
yang and philosophy into the mix and
then combined it with the e Jing's
cosmology that espoused the fundamental
unity of heaven earth and humanity 10d
Ren and because now humans were inserted
into the cosmological mix the
fundamental unity of ten dieren heaven
earth and humanity became central to
everything in the all-important and
milestone year of 136 BCE the 64
hexagrams the judgments line statements
and the ten wings or Confucian
commentaries became the Imperial II
sanctioned official standard text of the
II Ching so this is where the Joey the
changes of Joe thought to have been
finalised back in 800 BCE its South
changes and becomes known as the Book of
Changes
I know previous to this I've been
calling at the e Jing but it's only here
in the Han where it is named for the
first time and included into what was
grouped together as the five classics
the wool ching throughout the series
we'll be mentioning these five classics
these canons of chinese ancient
philosophy and henceforth the e jing if
you'll indulge me became a kind of
operating system and this OS was orbited
by a multitude of plug-and-play apps
that incorporated numerology astronomy
the seasons the five elements the ten
celestial stems the twelve earthly
branches diagrams and drawings and
aspects of Confucianism Buddhism and
Taoism that collectively ladies and
gentlemans
offers limitless interpretive
possibilities within the 64 hexagrams of
the Book of Changes they could explain
just about anything
and everything that could happen in the
world including with Europe very own
self in 1973 came the mob Wang to a
discovery where a totally intact han
dynasty tomb was unearthed near Changsha
in Hunan that had been sealed shut in
the second century BCE I've mentioned
this in a couple podcasts imagine the
delight to these archaeologists when
they discovered inside that tomb
perfectly preserved copies of the dotted
Jing and the eating as well as
additional commentaries on the eating
that had not seen the light of day for
21 centuries so after all these years
something that had since the time of Han
wildy at least so after all these years
something that had well since the time
of Han wildy at least been considered a
complete and finish document they
learned from these additional texts
discovered in 1973 the air Bruce Lee
died that the complete story had still
not been told in addition to that this
Malang to a discovery of the eating
ordered the text in a completely
different way that had been known before
the way that had been credited to King
wen and the way the ten wings or
commentaries were ordered we're not the
same as the version long accepted as the
final one so in the world of the eaching
the 1973 my long to a discovery it was a
pretty big deal that's how it is in
China
they're still digging things up that
turns on its head events that we had
always accepted as the official history
this is one example another example was
a 1908 when law Chon you figured out all
those dragon bones excavated in Anyang
by Wang Yi Rong held the key that later
proved the mythical Shang Dynasty wasn't
so mythical after all so we can see how
prior to the introduction of the ten
wings the e Jing's roll has sort of been
limited to that of a high octane
divination manual with these ethical
commentaries injected
to the core document philosophers during
the Han period began to view the e Jing
is not only a guide to divination but
also as a work that combined moral
philosophy with cosmology and numerical
speculation also is by the time of the
Han that the eaching had had time to
absorb many Taoist and Buddhist ideas
and those two also began braising in the
pot the ten wings in all the
commentaries that followed there were so
many written over the centuries they
sought to figure this 10 d Ren
interrelationship out have an earth
person or humanity because of the
built-in flexibility of the eating the
commentaries vary greatly as far as what
the philosophers thought scholars would
spend hours days and even longer just
contemplating the mysteries what ifs and
maybes of just one single hexagram in
fact you can bet all 4000 plus
characters contained in the e Ching over
the past three thousand years have been
intensely scrutinized down to the
subatomic level
Zhou Cho Ming's commentaries on the twin
show the spring and autumn annals is the
earliest work that really gave later
scholars a better comprehension of the
workings of the eaching this work was
called the children I've mentioned it
before the first two wings are called
the commentary on the images there's
also the commentary on the judgments the
fifth and sixth wings are the most
crucial
they're called the great commentary or
dot one it uses Confucianism to explain
the metaphysics and moral ethics of the
eaching it attempts to take humankind
and all the natural forces in the world
and try to tie everything together into
one neat little package 10d Ren have an
earth person how everything is all
interrelated this great commentary is
the most referred to of the ten wings
the other wings all deal with
aspects of the each in including how to
read the hexagrams it explained the
trigrams this way quote of old when fou
she ruled the world he gazed upward and
observed images in the heavens he gazed
about him and observed patterns upon the
earth
he observed markings on birds and beasts
how they were adapted to different
regions close at hand he drew
inspiration from within his own person
further afield he drew inspiration from
the outside world
thus he created the eight trigrams he
made connections with the power of the
spirit light he distinguished the merit
of things according to their essential
nature end quote
now the whole idea of yin and yang or
the supreme ultimate the Tai Chi symbol
this is all part and parcel of the
eaching you all know the yin-yang symbol
besides the South Korean flag it's on a
million pieces of art and objects and
tattoos this symbol didn't arrive on the
scene until the Song Dynasty we'll get
that in a later episode when we discuss
Joe Jordan Yi and the proliferation of
these charts and diagrams that became
big hits in their day let's look at yin
yang for a second Yin
symbolizes the shady secret dark lunar
mysterious cold hidden passive receptive
yielding cool soft and of course the
feminine gender young on the other hand
is the opposite of everything in with
young you have clear bright solar hot
illuminated evident active aggressive
controlling hard and of course the
masculine gender many other forces are
attributed to yin and yang but the most
important thing to know is these are all
opposites working together as one whole
single system Yin is earth Jung is
heaven the whole world is viewed in the
e Jing is a system of interacting
opposites these opposites do not fight
each other instead they complement each
other and work in consort to bring
change as I said the e Jing focuses on
the forces of change nothing is static
things change over time our task on this
earth is to adjust to the circumstances
of life as they unfold before us the
eaching exists just for this reason by
understanding the forces of yin and yang
these mutually dependent opposites and
the forces they have on our life you can
be better prepared to deal with whatever
crossroads he come to the Chinese like
other advanced civilizations believe
numbers provided the link between humans
and how they were developing on this
earth and with the great unknown the
supernatural or the doll whatever you
want to believe with mathematics there
were ways to find hidden order and
patterns amidst the randomness and
disorder of life later on when we get to
the Song Dynasty a lot of far-out
theories are gonna be made that are
intensively numerology based it was
believed back then and I guess still
today by some people that's spirits or
hidden powers when they spoke they used
the language of numbers and I'm sure
you've all heard that when the day comes
when we make contact with aliens from
outer space most likely it will be the
language of math that enables us to
communicate I mentioned Richard Wilhelm
at the outset of this episode he was a
German Christian missionary and the
person in the West we have most to thank
for bringing us the e Jing Wilhelm was a
great champion of the e Ching he was the
one who was primarily responsible for
taking the heat Ching from the exclusive
realm of Chinese and other East Asian
cultures and bringing it to a very
interested and appreciative Western
audience that quickly embraced it but
who influenced Richard Wilhelm surely he
wasn't the first Westerner to discover
the defining powers and philosophy
contained in the II Ching surely not we
all know Westerners were turning up in
China all the time going back to the
olden days one of those foreigners a
Jesuit of course always the Jesuits when
we talk about the earliest
Western scholarship of Chinese culture
father Joaquim Bouvet he was one of six
French Jesuits who came to China in 1687
on the orders of the Sun King Louis
quatorze to glean through whatever
scientific data and Intel they could and
bring it back to France Bouvet ended up
being appointed as a tutor to the kind
of Shi Emperor he became enamored of the
each Inge from the start and dedicated
himself to somehow someway finet linkage
between the wisdom contained in the
Chinese classics than with the Holy
Bible and he was the earliest of these
Jesuits to go to great lengths to unlock
the mystery of the eaching they kept up
their work into the 18th century and the
result was the first Latin translation
the great Scottish sinologist James leg
produced the first English version of
the each Inge among many other
translations of the classics father
Joaquim Bouvet died on john lennon's
birthday October 9th in Beijing 1730 and
that's where he's buried in his report
sent back to Louis the 14th he said of
the eaching quote this work contains the
principle of all Sciences and put more
precisely it is a fully developed
metaphysical system
end quote it was these Jesuit fathers
like walking Bouvet who got everything
started we discussed this in fair detail
in that episode CHP 98 on Ricci solve on
bail and ver beast
if the Jesuits were gonna get some
traction with Catholicism in China they
had to first find common cultural ground
to teach what their religion was all
about so what did they do they went
straight to the five classics and the
four books and tried to pry open that
door one Chinese character at a time
they may not have gotten everything
right but they had to dig the thankless
foundation upon which all other Western
scholarship of China could be built top
of the list for the Jesuits was the main
mission convert Chinese to Catholicism
so their focus was all on the philosophy
and religion of China and this is why
Bouvet latched on to the e Jing in
particular Bouvet was a numbers man so
he was really able to appreciate some of
these far-out numerology based theories
there were other ancient documents that
were pointed to that supported a lot of
this speculation and mathematics from
that moment beginning in the late 17th
century Western scholarship of the
eaching was continuous and you can bet
these scholars were always looking over
the shoulder of their Chinese colleagues
they had a 2,000 year head starts and
there was plenty of accumulated Chinese
scholarship and wisdom to glean through
then later on in the 19th century
Western scholars of China began to
realize for the first time how central
the eaching was to so many other aspects
of Chinese culture not just cosmology
and philosophy so standing on all these
shoulders Richard Wilhelm
in 1923 began working on his own
translation from the archaic classical
Chinese of the e Jin into modern German
he was supervised by someone with the
pedigree of Confucius himself someone of
the Kong family who when the work was
completed gave it the Kong family seal
of approval and coming from a descendant
of Confucius was almost as good as
getting it from the man himself and it
was later on in 1950 that this work was
translated and published into English
for the first time
The Book of Changes in the first half of
the 20th century was I guess he could
say not for everybody
I'm guessing it was more of a novelty or
a prop someone kept in their parlor or
their library then came 1961 when
another English edition was published
and to lend credibility and attention to
this new Book of Changes no less a
person than Carl Jung himself the father
of analytical psychology and colleague
of Sigmund Freud wrote the preface CG
Jung even
his day with his work son synchronicity
was a pretty well-known and respected
chap he's always mentioned in the same
breath with Freud his preface of this
edition of the each in was like I'm not
sure how many of you remember that that
Hari Krishna book they used to hand out
at airports that had a message from
George Harrison printed on the first
page and had a signature dang I accepted
the book just for that and on the 1960s
there was a major surge and awareness
about Jung's work and with a celebrity
of Carl Jung stature associated with the
eaching copies flew off the shelves in
the West and unless I'm mistaken it's
been on someone or others bestseller
list ever since and in many languages
the 1967 edition of the eating the third
one was one of the classics of the
hippie culture the 1960s in East Asia
however The Book of Changes wasn't some
fad or inspiration for all kinds of
recently priced talismans it was taken
much more seriously when the early
emissaries from Korea Japan and Vietnam
began coming to China in the Han Dynasty
especially during the Silk Road glory
years they brought back everything to
their respective countries that they
could get their hands on and they got it
right away
they understood as far as what the eg
and these other Confucian works could do
for them and where they came from and
that's how it migrated there not so much
to the West beyond Tibet
it was mostly these three places in
particular that this ideology was
embraced along with this system and way
of living
Vietnam isn't China neither are Korea in
Japan so in bringing these particular
aspects of Chinese culture into their
worlds they had to take the raw material
from China and Whittle around the edges
and process it a little adjust it here
and there and make it fit better with
their own culture this is true not only
for the e Jing but for Confucianism
Taoism and Chinese Buddhism how do
people in their everyday lives use the e
Jing
you determine the hexagram that was
meant for your situation there are a
number of ways people engaged the II
Ching the old-fashioned traditional way
like they did back in ancient times was
to use the stems or stalks of the yarrow
plant achillea mill folio to generate
the six lines of your special hexagram
but around the tongue dynasty a new
method was introduced that remains the
most popular way to generate a hexagram
this is three coins method heads and
tails you toss three coins six times to
get your hexagram each toss of the coins
gives you a number hence our three and
tails are worth two three heads for
example 3 plus 3 plus 3 equal 9 and then
there's a corresponding line that goes
with these numbers always straight or
broken mathematically using 3 coins that
could only have two outcomes each means
you're either gonna get a 6 or a 9 or a
7 or an 8 6 equals old Ginn changing 8
is gene unchanging 7 is young young
unchanging and 9 is young changing this
method is a lot simpler than the arrow
stocks and if you're gonna try it out it
recommend this three coins method
straight-line is called a dark line or
the young line the broken line is the
light line also called the in line light
or dark straight or broken Yin or yang
one on top of the other to build six
rows start at the bottom there are no
accidents in life or dumb luck
anyone who at any time in their life
felt things happen for a reason can't
argue that when three coins fall tails
tails heads that straight line that is
associated with that specific number no
one could say that was purely an
accident this process is called Claire
omen see this is where you cast lots
like rolling dice casting yarrow sticks
or three coins and the outcome is
determined by some higher power like the
will of God
anyone who has been
- I don't know say Wong Tai Sin temple
in Hong Kong or any Taoist temple for
that matter has seen an example of this
kind of practice if you're shaking
strips of bamboo out of a cup with
messages on them and one of those strips
of bamboo drops out of your cup it
didn't fall out on accident some unseen
force shows that specific strip and
caused it to fall out it's really this
simple but like everything with the e
Jing simple but not so simple once you
generate your special hexagram one of 64
you know by tossing the coins you then
consult the text of the eaching and it
gives you a line-by-line analysis of the
hexagram and reveals the situation
always from the bottom line to the top
line you read that you get your answer
or advice whatever you want to call it
but once again you have to be careful
how you interpret it or who you have
interpreted for you this isn't like
taking a slip of paper out of a fortune
cookie slightly more complicated some of
these eaching masters in China quite
renowned and get paid tens of thousands
of dollars to come in and do some jobs
some of you might be shaking your head
and thinking what is this all got to do
with tapping into the unseen forces all
around us no one from Missouri is gonna
believe this but this is the thing
yeah it's tossing three coins and who
cares could be dimes nickels quarters
euros or Norwegian Corona as long as all
three coins are the same
you gotta believe and be in the right
frame of mind the way I see it well if
it didn't work and was all a bunch of
theoretical BS how did it last three
thousand years like it did there's a
reason okay let's put the bookmark in
right here
Confucius wished he had at least 50
years to study this great work so I hope
you don't think I was gonna be able to
cut it all up and package it up for you
in this 40-something minute podcast I
encourage you all to go check it out for
yourself and see if any of the almost
3,000 years or so of wisdom can
rich your life you can't believe how
many people swear by it and not just in
the Chinese speaking world
okay part for next week and we'll pick
up where we left off last episode with
the passing of Confucius and 479 BCE and
if you'll permit me to use the Royal we
will focus on Munson moths
shinza and maybe a few more philosophers
we'll see how far we can take it before
the buzzer rings you haven't heard the
last of the e Jing it's going to be
popping up here and there especially as
we spotlight several Han and some
philosophers from Los Angeles
once again this is Laszlo Montgomery
wishing you all the very best join me
next time won't you for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast
take care everyone
you